=head1 NAME

dapper - Desktop Applications Autostarter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dapper> [I<OPTION>...]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h, --help>

Show a little help and exit

=item B<-V, --version>

Show version information and exit

=item B<-s, --system-dirs>

Process autostart in system folders: dapper will look for & process .desktop
files in folder I<autostart> of each of the folders in B<XDG_CONFIG_DIRS>

=item B<-u, --user-dir>

Process autostart in user folder: dapper will look for & process .desktop
files in folder I<autostart> in B<XDG_CONFIG_HOME>

=item B<-e, --extra-dir> I<PATH>

Process autostart in I<PATH>. dapper will look for & process .desktop
files in specified folder. Can be specified multiple times.

Note that if a specified folder is not found, no error will occur, and dapper
will silently move on to the next folder to process, if any.

=item B<-d, --desktop> I<DESKTOP>

Start application for I<DESKTOP>. This will be used for keys B<OnlyShowIn> and
B<NotShowIn> to determine whether or not to perform autostart.
If specified, this will override the value for configuration file.

=item B<-t, --terminal> I<CMDLINE>

Use I<CMDLINE> as prefix for terminal mode. That is, when key B<Terminal> was
set to I<true> the command line on B<Exec> will be prefixed by the following.
If specified, this will override the value for configuration file.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

Enable verbose mode. Specify twice to enable debug mode (even more verbose output).

=item B<-n, --dry-run>

Do not start anything, instead the command line that would be started will be
printed on stdout.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dapper> is a simple lightweight desktop application auto-starter. It will read
I<.desktop> files in the autostart directories, all according to the FreeDesktop
specifications (see B<NOTES> below).

dapper will process folders in the order their respective options were specified.

=over

=item So you can have user folder be processed first, then system folders by using:

dapper --user-dir --system-dirs

=item And to have system folders processed first, use:

dapper -su

=back


The desktop environment applications should be started for is determined from
configuration file (see B<CONFIGURATION> below), or through B<--desktop>

The value specified will be used when keys B<OnlyShowIn> or B<NotShowIn> are
used. If nothing desktop was specified, no autostart will be performed.

For applications set to be started in terminal (via key B<Terminal>), the command
line will be prefixed by option B<Terminal> from configuration file (see
B<CONFIGURATION> below), or through B<--terminal>

If nothing was specified, no autostart will be performed for applications to be
run in terminal.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

B<dapper> will try to read configuration from a file B<~/.config/dapper.conf>

This file must contain settings, in the form:

Key=Value

Keys are case sensitive. Spaces can be used before/after the equal sign. Empty
lines and lines starting with a # will be ignored, the later allowing to add
comments.

There are no section to be defined, key/value pairs should be specified right away.

Supported options are:

=over

=item B<Desktop>

The desktop environment to start applications for; used to process keys B<OnlyShowIn>
and B<NotShowIn>.

This can be overwritten from command line using B<--desktop>

=item B<Terminal>

The command line prefix to use for applications marked to be run in terminal,
through key B<Terminal>.

This can be overwritten from command line using B<--terminal>

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

When processing system folders (B<--system-dirs>), if B<XDG_CONFIG_DIRS> is not
set, I</etc/xdg> will be used.

When processing user folder (B<--user-dir>), if B<XDG_CONFIG_HOME> is not set,
I<~/.config> will be used. If B<HOME> is not set, dapper will fail. In such a
case, nothing will be started.

=head1 NOTES

While B<dapper> tries to follow the FreeDesktop specifications[1], the following
limitations should be known :

- Keys B<StartupNotify> and B<StartupWMClass> are not supported.

- When parsing command line in B<Exec>, field code B<%c> is not supported, and
simply removed.

[1] http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-latest.html

=head1 BUGS

They're probably crawling somewhere in there... if you happen to catch one,
(or more) report it and I'll do my best to squash it.

=head1 REPOSITORY

You can find the latest source code of B<dapper> as well as report bugs and/or
suggest features on its BitBucket repository, available at
L<https://bitbucket.org/jjacky/dapper>

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item Olivier Brunel <i.am.jack.mail AT gmail DOT com>

=back
